---
title: 7.6 Hypothesis tests and confidence intervals
createTime: 2024/09/07 00:14:04
permalink: /MATH2099/o187cfwn/
---

## Question 1

<div class="how_qb">

**Concept**

<iframe width="672" height="378" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/10Gh47f3D2Q" title="L7 19 Hypothesis Tests and Confidence Intervals" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Video Recap

- Hypothesis tests and CIs are more or less equivalent. That is, a hypothesis test for 

$$H_0: \theta = \theta_0 \qquad \text{against} \qquad H_a: \theta \neq \theta_0 $$ 

will reject $H_0$ at significance level $\alpha$ if and only if a $100(1-\alpha)\%$ confidence interval for $\theta$ does not contain $\theta_0$.
- Each approach provides different insights:
  - CIs provide a range of likely values for $\theta$ 
  - tests display the risk levels, such as $p$-values, associated with a specific decision

</div>

## Question 2

<div class="how_qb">

**Example**

The quality of a golf club is, among other things, measured by its "coefficient of restitution", the ratio of the outgoing velocity of the ball to the incoming velocity of the club. An experiment was performed in which 15 clubs produced by a particular club maker were selected at random and their coefficient of restitution measured:

`0.8411 0.8191 0.8182 0.8125 0.8750 0.8580 0.8532 0.8483 0.8276 0.7983 0.8042 0.8730 0.8282 0.8359 0.8660`

The maker claims that the mean coefficient of restitution of its clubs is $0.82$. From the observations we have, is there evidence (at level $0.05$) against the maker's claim?

$H_0:\ \mu=0.82\quad H_a:\ \mu\neq 0.82$

What is the value of the test statistic?

 `2.72` (give your answer to 2 decimal places)

which would come from a t distribution with `14`  degrees of freedom, if $H_0$ were true.

What is the $p$-value?
 `0.017` (give your answer to 3 decimal places)


What can we conclude from this test

- [ ] There is some evidence that $H_0$ is true, that is, there is some evidence that the coefficient of restitution is not 0.82.

- [x] There is some evidence against $H_0$, that is, there is some evidence that the coefficient of restitution is not 0.82.

- [ ] There is some evidence against $H_0$, that is, there is some evidence against the claim that the coefficient of restitution is not 0.82.

<iframe width="672" height="378" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/2WVD1BUs_8k" title="L7 20 Hypothesis Test for Example 3" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

</div>


## Question 3

<div class="how_qb">

**Example**

Using the golf club data of Example 3, construct a $95\%$ confidence interval for the true mean coefficient of restitution.

( `0.824` , `0.851` ) (give your answer to 3 decimal places)

What does this confidence interval tell you about the null hypothesis for Example 3, stated earlier? Is this the same conclusion you reached from the hypothesis test?

- [ ] 0.82 is in the confidence interval, so we are pretty sure the true mean could be 0.82.  This is equivalent to the conclusion we reached earlier.

- [x] 0.82 is not in the confidence interval, so we are pretty sure the true mean is not 0.82.  This is equivalent to the conclusion we reached earlier.

- [ ] 0.82 is in the confidence interval, so we are pretty sure the true mean could be 0.82.  This is a very different conclusion to the one we reached earlier.

- [ ] 0.82 is not in the confidence interval, so we are pretty sure the true mean is not 0.82.  This is a very different conclusion to the one we reached earlier.

<iframe width="672" height="378" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_LaADlNtVoo" title="L7 22 Example 3 CI" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

</div>

## Question 4

<div class="how_qb">

**Concept**

<iframe width="672" height="378" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/LJzko5CKEm4" title="L7 23 Matlab" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Video Recap

- You can do a $t$-test really quickly on Matlab using the $\texttt{t.test}$ function.

</div>

## Question 5

<div class="how_qb">

**Exercise**

If the golf club data have been read into Matlab and stored as $\texttt{golf}$, which of the following commands will store a $p$-value (for a two-sided test of $\mu=0.82$, and a 95% confidence interval?

- [ ] $\texttt{[h,p,ci]=ttest(golf)}$

- [ ] $\texttt{ttest(golf)}$

- [ ] $\texttt{ttest(golf,0.82)}$

- [x] $\texttt{[h,p,ci]=ttest(golf,0.82)}$


</div>

## Question 6

<div class="how_qb">

**Concept**

<iframe width="672" height="378" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/pVWQ1HBzFP0" title="L7 21 Hypothesis Test and Confidence Interval Summary" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Video Recap

Many research questions are best answered using a hypothesis test. 

- If the data used to answer this question are a single quantitative variable, the $t$-test (or "one-sample $t$ test") is the appropriate method of analysis. 
- If the data used to answer the research question is a single categorical variable, that only takes two levels, the appropriate method of analysis is a $z$-test (or "one-sample test") of the proportion.


</div>