---
title: 9.7 New Observations
createTime: 2024/09/25 22:51:11
permalink: /MATH2099/y6qplykq/
---

## Question 1

<div class="how_qb">

**Concept**

<iframe width="672" height="378" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/iXoqIEgjQbU" title="L9 20 Predicting New Values Concept" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Video Recap

- Sometimes we want to **predict new or future observations $Y$** at $X=x$.
- This is different to what we saw previously because now we need to take into account the fact that points don't all lie on the line, as well as the uncertainty estimating the line.
- The **prediction error** for a new observation $Y|X=x$ can be written as $Y|(X=x)-Y^*(x)$, and we can show that

$$Y|(X=x) - Y^*(x) \sim \mathcal{N}\left(0,\sigma \sqrt{1+ \frac{1}{n} + \frac{(x-\bar{x})^2}{s_{xx}}}\right)$$
.

- We can use this result to construct a two-sided $100 \times (1-\alpha)$% prediction interval for a new observation $Y$ at $X=x$:

$$\left[\hat{y}(x)-t_{n-2;1-\alpha/2}s\,\sqrt{1+\frac{1}{n} + \frac{(x-\bar{x})^2}{s_{xx}}},\hat{y}(x)+t_{n-2;1-\alpha/2}s\,\sqrt{1+\frac{1}{n} + \frac{(x-\bar{x})^2}{s_{xx}}} \right]$$

- Note the "$1+$" in the square root sign of both formulas. This is the extra variation due to error around the line.

</div>

## Question 2

<div class="how_qb">

**Example**

Construct a 95% prediction interval on the oxygen purity $Y$ when the hydrocarbon level $X$ is fixed to $x = 1$% (for the data shown previously).

**[** `86.77` **,** `91.64` **]**  *(Enter your answer correct to 2 decimal places)*

<iframe width="672" height="378" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-hhMM42QwMM" title="L9 21 Predicting New Values Exercise" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

</div>

## Question 3

<div class="how_qb">

**Concept**

<iframe width="672" height="378" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/yH9eWwEKdRI" title="L9 22 Predicting New Values using Matlab" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Video Recap

- On Matlab, get a prediction interval for a new observation using the $\texttt{predict}$ argument, but make sure you also set the $\texttt{'Prediction'}$ argument to the value $\texttt{'observation'}$.
- If we construct prediction intervals at lots of different values of $x$, we can construct prediction bands for new observations. These are usually heaps wider than confidence bands, because of the extra uncertainty due to new values not lying exactly on the line.
- The normality assumption ends up being really important when constructing a prediction interval for a new value of $Y$! This happens because the Central Limit Theorem doesn't apply to individual observations, it only applies to means. In fact, prediction intervals are rarely used in practice, because they rely critically on this assumption.

</div>

## Question 4

<div class="how_qb">

**Example**

The Central Limit Theorem (CLT) provides protection against violation of the normality assumption in many statistical procedures, but there are some exceptions.

Which of the following regression inference tools rely critically on the normality assumption (because the CLT does not apply)?

*Tick all options that apply.*

- [ ] When making inferences about the true slope $\beta_1$
- [ ] When making inferences about the true intercept $\beta_0$
- [ ] When making inferences about the predicted mean of $Y$ when $X=x$, $\mu_{Y|X=x}$
- [x] When making inferences about a new observation, $Y|X=x$

</div>